hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with Joseph zielkowski the CEO and
co-founder at realm Insurance realm is
an insurance company that Embraces new
risks and seeks to bring resiliency to
Innovation they work through a global
distribution Network to provide
Insurance capacity to support the
companies that are pioneering New
Horizons in this conversation Joe and I
talk about the role Alternative
Insurance Providers play in these
Cutting Edge industries from crypto to
psychedelics to Esports to longevity how
regulatory bodies can help establish
unique Insurance opportunities the
various factors that film evaluates when
underwriting why larger Insurance
entities aren't jumping in to ensure
Innovative companies and so much more
just a reminder nothing said on this
podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell
any tokens that nothing should be taken
as Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Joe and I hope you
enjoy the conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined with
Joseph zielkowski a fellow there
you go CEO and co-founder at Rome
Insurance how you doing today Joe all is
well thanks for having me great to be
here so before we kick all of this off
when you are in school you were the
captain of your hockey team oh wow we're
going here and you've since hung up your
skates and guess you split your time
between uh two really sunny and warm
places so generally speaking what was
that transition like from a cold and
snowy climate where you were a
participant on the hockey team too now
living where you live well physically I
hung up my skates but mentally I still
skate every day yeah no I grew up in the
Northeast and uh yeah after I got out of
school I started making my way further
south and then you know in 2005 I was in
south Georgia kind of one of my first
jobs out of college and realized that
flip-flops and bathing suits in December
was more my cup of tea and uh you know
I've been selling ever since so it's
been all good that's cool
um yeah I left uh I did the opposite I
left Miami and came to Denver in the
hopes of chasing snow and climbing the
mountains so I always appreciate when
people choose to locate in different
climates than where they were from
another thing we kind of have in common
with one another is though I myself am
not in the insurance Biz my dad was an
insurance agent before he retired albeit
with Allstate and doing traditional
insurance but I've always grown up
thinking that like insurance is kind of
a traditional boring middle path to you
know getting that great middle class
type of life so it's interesting to talk
to somebody in the insurance industry
that's on The Cutting Edge so maybe you
could just walk us through thanks for
putting the air quotes around kind of
yeah I appreciate that well you guys are
you guys are underwriting some really
Innovative companies and we're
definitely going to be getting into that
but like my dad he located in a mall and
had a small booth and grinded his way up
to building a book of business so what
was your path into the insurance space
like yeah I mean it's funny you
mentioned that because that absolutely
100 is The Stereotype right the
insurance industry is this boring square
kind of one-dimensional like monolith of
an industry and puts a lot of people to
sleep either makes them angry or puts it
to sleep right but if you you actually
look at the insurance industry you know
on a global basis and within the various
sectors there's actually a lot of
amazingly creative and interesting and
Innovative things going on with the
insurance industry especially The Fringe
and that's really where I focus a lot of
my attention and bandwidth over the last
Dozen Years operating within the
industry so I think if you look at
Financial Services you look at real
estate development or you look at energy
you know you could make stereotypes
about kind of General perceptions of all
these industries but if you actually
look at what's going on on the edge or
On The Fringe there's some pretty
amazing things going on within all these
industries and you know Insurance
certainly among them yeah and so what
was kind of the moment where you kind of
change your perspective about insurance
or what was the job that kind of Drew
you into the space and opened your eyes
to the types of opportunity I came into
the insurance industry in a bit of a
backwards way
um you know most people come into the
insurance industry kind of through a
career not too dissimilar from the one
that your dad had I came into the
industry through the kind of alternative
risk financing and risk transfer side of
the business which is this niche sector
of the insurance business that basically
deals with solutions that enable
sophisticated insurers to achieve
conclusions and outcomes that you can't
achieve through the traditional
Insurance Marketplace and you know
without getting too far into the weeds
most companies you know especially small
to Middle Market companies they sit down
with their insurance agent or broker and
the broker kind of informs them on the
scope of the Property and Casualty and
Specialty insurance coverages that they
need to protect the business from you
know exposures arising from their
operations and in all of those scenarios
you know the company ends up paying a
premium to a third party insurance
company and if they're like most
operators which is to say if they're a
good operator that you know pays
attention to risk management and risk
mitigation that premium spend is an
unrecoverable expense right you pay it
to Travelers you pay it to Liberty or
you pay it to you know Berkshire
Berkshire keeps your money and ends up
out claims for Less scrupulous owners
and so Insurance kind of becomes the
bane of a lot of business owners
existence and when you realize that
there's there are alternatives to
procuring Insurance you know you begin
to realize that there's this whole other
sector of the insurance industry that
has been happening for the last 30 or 40
years and it's where these you know
sophisticated companies that you know
operate in a variety of different
sectors actually set up their own
insurance or reinsurance subsidiary and
they start financing risk and premium
through their own regulated entity and
then they're able to obtain a broader
appetite and broader scope of Market
participation for really complicated
risks and obtaining reinsurance so when
you look at some of the biggest
companies in the world like Google or
Verizon or British Petroleum or Boeing
these companies aren't sitting down with
their insurance broker and just taking
recommendations to buy lines of coverage
in the same way that a normal business
would they're utilizing their own
insurance and reinsurance infrastructure
to achieve these risk financing and risk
transfer outcomes that you just can't
get through the traditional Insurance
Marketplace so that's how I got into the
industry and you know it really gives
you an appreciation for what's capable
through the traditional Insurance market
and then when you realize the
limitations of that market you then have
perspective on strategies and
infrastructure and solutions that you
can use to find different types of
solutions and you mentioned that these
new kind of solutions and these hybrid
approaches kind of started becoming more
popular four decades ago or so so what
was it about the 80s 90s that made it
possible for these new methods of
insurance to arise yeah I mean I think
if you go back to it it's probably like
70 or 80 years ago that the first
captive insurance company was set up but
it really comes down to Insurance
legislation right you look at
jurisdictions like Bermuda for example
they actually created
Insurance legislation that was more
accommodating to set up different types
of insurance companies other than ones
that just ensure third-party risks right
so put yourself in the shoes of an
insurance regulator and you're
regulating an insurance company that is
providing homeowners and auto insurance
to a bunch of you know let's say
unsophisticated Insurance buyers
as a regulator your biggest and most
primary concern is ensuring that that
insurance company is going to remain
solvent so that it can uphold its policy
obligations for all of these kind of
less sophisticated Insurance buyers well
if you use a regulator acknowledge that
there's a different type of insurance
company that's going to be extending its
capacity only to a really sophisticated
Insurance buyer that has lots of
financial wherewithal and a big risk
management stuff you're going to enable
them to set up an insurance company with
less regulation with more investment you
know latitude on how they invest their
assets policy design and pricing and so
when you look at some of these really
important insurance jurisdictions around
the world one of the reasons a
jurisdiction like Bermuda has become so
relevant to more complicated and
interesting and creative forms of
insurance is because they have a
legislative and Regulatory framework
that enables insurance companies of
different types of operations to form
more efficiently and operate with more
latitude
is it safe to say that it's the Advent
of Open Source information sharing that
the internet enabled that has allowed
for this sort of innovation because if
your customers and clients and companies
uh have more access to information now
then they're more educated so is this
something that you think Insurance
Regulators have kind of tapped into or
is this just uh reaching for straws I
think actually it's more of the latter I
think it's reaching for straws I mean I
think you know it's more a condition of
how the insurance industry works and has
worked for the last 350 years right it's
a backwards looking industry which is to
say it's constantly looking toward data
related to certain loss Types on a
historical basis and then it's using
that data to inform pricing and
reserving models to attempt to predict
the future frequency and severity of
loss right so if you think about that
using historical data to kind of predict
the future and leverage that insight to
arrive at pricing related to the types
of coverage that you want to be issuing
if you don't have the historical data
you can't predict future frequency and
severity of loss which means you as an
insurance company can't justify issuing
the coverage and in that sense insurance
is and has been somewhat black and white
it is highly kind of resistant to
deploying capacity for new things
because it's very difficult to
understand how that risk is going to
perform over the next one to two three
five and ten years and if you don't know
how it's going to perform
you're not in a position to stand up in
front of your underwriting committee or
your reinsurance committee and give a
lot of confidence about the company's
ability to profitably write the risk and
so you know when new emerging risks
arise
typically you know whether it's
risks arising from companies operating
within the blockchain and web 3 space or
whether it's new forms of sustainable
energy these companies are always
confronted with significant challenges
and obtaining traditional Insurance
because of just the general lack of
accommodation for new and Innovative
things in the insurance world yeah and I
really want to dig into what it's like
to be on The Cutting Edge in such a
backwards looking industry but I also
want to paint a little bit of context
before we go there so uh we'll touch
upon that later in the discussion I do
want to hear a little bit about what
your Genesis with the crypto and
blockchain space was when did you first
stumble on crypto was it Bitcoin
ethereum some other cryptocurrency and
uh what were your initial insights about
the asset class so I bought my first
Bitcoin in 2017. and that was largely
driven by fomo and not a real intense
understanding of what was going on the
space actually one of my my friends
still today who I don't trust related to
financial decisions it told me that I
really need to look into bit connect as
a great opportunity to earn outsized
daily returns and I was like listen this
is amazing in a vacuum but absolutely
not real and impossible of course we
know how big connects ended up unfolding
but you know I was kind of being
peripherally made aware of you know the
different opportunities and things that
were happening within this not well
understood Financial ecosystem and I
finally kind of took the plunge and
bought some Bitcoin and as it turned out
some of my insurance you know related
Services cross paths with a company that
was operating in the digital asset space
and they needed help in obtaining a form
of commercial crime insurance that would
give them the ability to point to a
source of financial recovery in the
event of broader or death and you know
long story short it was really the first
window for me into understanding you
know the importance of the technology
that these companies were leveraging to
increase the efficiency and transparency
in finance it was the first window for
me into realizing you know that these
initiatives were really important and
compelling and they were being led by
individuals with really great
backgrounds in finance and technology
and they had you know investors behind
them who were sophisticated in their own
right and were making significant
Investments because of their belief in
the technology and products and services
these companies were pushing out it was
also crystal clear that so much of the
headline risk in 2017 around you know
frauds and rug poles and Silk Road and
money laundering yeah certainly that was
a component of of this kind of new
frontier but it was a very tiny fraction
of what was actually taking place and
the majority of that was positive and
really interesting and so you know when
I had that experience you know I think
and you zoom out a little bit and you
look at what's going on globally within
this really new emerging Frontier you
realize that this technology is going to
change the way that we operate within
the financial world it's likely going to
impact real estate and it's going to
impact health care and it's going to
impact energy and Logistics and then
when you also kind of reconcile that
with the fact that I know intimately how
slow Insurance capacity evolves right
you can't help but recognize this is a
really huge opportunity which is to say
the demand for insurance coverage within
the digital asset in web 3 space was
only going to increase and the capacity
available to them from an insurance
standpoint was likely not going to move
and so from my perspective at the time
this solution really the only solution
was to set up a new insurance company I
had the ability to retain risk in its
own right create and you know modify new
and traditional Insurance products in a
way that was going to provide a mutually
beneficial solution which is to say give
these Insurance the access to insurance
coverage that they need in order to
scale their business and put us as a new
insurance company ensuring some of these
new risks in a position to remain
profitable and viable for the benefit of
our policyholders I'm super excited to
dig into realm but for a lot of our
audience who understandably might not be
in the day-to-day weeds of the insurance
industry can we just clear up a little
bit of jargon so that as we have this
conversation people can understand a
little bit about what we're talking
about so uh sorry if these are very
Elementary questions but I just want to
have these definitions out there so what
is a crypto insurance carrier well it's
kind of a mission over right because
Realm is a fully regulated commercial
insurance company right just like a lot
of the other insurance companies that
people are aware of not dissimilar from
All State right we are an incorporated
company we're regulated in the second
most significant insurance and
reinsurance jurisdiction in the world by
The Bermuda monetary Authority and the
real distinguishing factor for realm as
a kind of boring traditional insurance
company is that we've decided to focus
our capacity on supported companies
doing really Innovative and interesting
things
what is underwriting underwriting yeah
good question so underwriting is it's a
process of categorizing risk and pricing
risk related to the different exposures
related to the coverages that you're
looking at providing coverage for so you
know as an example when you look at
something like directors and officers
liability risks right maybe some of your
audience are familiar with directors and
officers liability risk but probably not
right if you're sitting in the capacity
as a director or an officer of a company
you are liable for what are called
wrongful acts that are related to you
operating in Your Capacity as a director
and officer so whether it's alleged
non-compliance from Regulators or if you
have investors that feel they've been
financially damaged by negligent or
perceived you know dumb decisions that
you've made and charting or failing to
chart the course for the company or
competitors who are alleging that maybe
you've you know infringed on some of
their IP or customers who feel they've
been maligned because of your you know
harmful consumer strategies all of these
things can result in lawsuits or
enforcement actions or investigations
and the company is ultimately going to
be liable for a lot of these things but
almost always the individuals who are
leading the charge to these companies
are also going to be sued and directors
and officers liability insurance is is
to provide protection to these and those
of these companies in the event that
they become kind of personally liable
for anything the company's doing and so
when you think about underwriting
directors officers liability insurance
you have to look at a company's
financials you know how well are they
financially situated do they have the
cash to manage this business in a viable
recruited and compliant manner over the
next 12 to 18 months is the management
team competent right are these guys and
and women capable of making rational
informed decisions related to the
products and services that they're
putting out into the market what is
their compliance infrastructure look
like do they care about compliance do
they not care about compliance how much
investment are they making into their
technology and to their products what is
their marketing and communication
externally look like and so when you
look at the dno underwriting effort it's
this quantitative and qualitative
exercise that enables you to arrive at
this conclusion of is this a good risk
or is it a bad risk and if we say we
think it's a good risk we then walk
through a pricing exercise that takes
into account the merits and facts and
circumstances of you know the particular
account to arrive at a premium and that
is probably a long-winded way of
explaining what underwriting is well
there's a lot I want to unpack there but
I also just want to get this last Eli
five out can you just explain what
reinsurance is sure insurance is
insurance or Insurance Company right so
you as the operator of the smart economy
podcast you might have to buy let's say
a media liability policy related to
people claiming you've defamed them or
you've said something during your
podcast that has harmed them in some way
you buy insurance as a way of
transferring the risk related to any of
that potential liability to an insurance
company who's willing to accept it well
realm as an insurance company issues
these insurance policies to hundreds of
companies operating in different
locations all over the world and we
retain all of that risk on our balance
sheet reinsurance is a way for Rome to
transfer some of that risk off of our
balance sheet onto the balance sheet of
a different type of insurance company
awesome thanks for giving us a little
bit of umbrella basic terms so that we
have some context moving forward so
realm insurance is a Cutting Edge
Insurance entity that's operating in an
industry that is overwhelmingly
backwards looking so what is realm
insurance and what are the type of
Cutting Edge industries that you guys
are helping ensure including but not
limited to crypto yeah so I mean what is
Cutting Edge it's a I think beauty's in
the eye of the beholder right but if you
look at really where we're focusing a
lot of our energy and attention it's
behind these Technologies and
initiatives that we actually genuinely
believe in as things that are going to
yield a lot of good and efficiency in
different sectors so you mentioned
digital asset you know in the web 3
ecosystem as a whole you know we kind of
touched on some of these points already
but you know the idea of decreasing the
friction and financial transactions and
the idea of making Financial Solutions
available to people in areas of the
world where the historically or
previously haven't been available the
initiatives of providing transparency
into a not well understood aspect of
something that's really important
towards everybody around the world you
know all of these things are made
possible through distributed
ledger-based Solutions and the impacts
are going to be pervasive we're already
seeing the impacts in the logistics
industry we're seeing the impacts in
real estate we're seeing the potential
for impacts in health care so from our
perspective we're looking at things on
The Cutting Edge that are not ephemeral
right that are not here today gone
tomorrow that are going to have a
long-standing impact and we want to
position ourselves as subject matter
experts as early as we possibly can so
that not only can we support companies
that are doing amazing things Within
These sectors but we can learn as much
about how these sectors and sub-sectors
and entire ecosystems are evolving and
we've taken the same approach to
companies operating in the Cannabis and
alternative therapeutic space so you
know if you had told me in 2018 that I
was going to be insuring companies using
MDMA and ketamine and psilocybin in
ayahuasca and LSD as initiatives to
solve really important problems with
like eating disorders and substance
abuse and PTSD and depression I would
have said you're out of your mind but
you know we've now provided coverage to
companies pursuing some of these kind of
neurologic initiatives in seven
different countries around the world and
now you look at what's happening from a
regulatory standpoint then Washington
has legalized it Colorado has just
legalized certain forms of you know
psychedelics the province of Alberta and
Canada has legalized that Australia has
legalized that there's 25 state
referendums within the U.S to either
decriminalize or legalize certain types
of psychedelic and whatsoever when you
look at where this is going two years
from now five years from now 10 years
from now this is a field of medicine and
therapy that is going to fundamentally
change the way we treat certain really
important diseases and our perspective
is we want to make sure that the
companies who are doing great things or
are trying to do great things and these
sectors have efficient access to
capacity and you know we also look at
other sectors that maybe aren't so you
know fundamental to human happiness or
health uh like Esports right there's a
lot of cool stuff going on in Esports
and online gaming these companies are
pursuing you know really interesting
opportunities within regulated
Frameworks and because
some of their operations are perceived
to be kind of outside of the norm or
something that would fall within a
square box they have a difficult time
getting insurance so we want to focus
our capacity on companies like that and
then outside of our core sector you look
at what's going on and artificial
intelligence on autonomous vehicles and
you know within the biotech space
longevity I mean there's amazing things
that are going on in longevity right now
some of which are kind of scary but
ultimately you know amazing we could
spend a ton of time digging into uh you
know some of those initiatives and
looking at the risks arising from these
clinical trials and coming to the
conclusion that these people have
nowhere to turn for coverage yeah and so
we look at the opportunity going forward
is almost endless and it's more just a
function of funneling these different
emerging Technologies and sectors down
into something that resembles a priority
list and making sure that we've got the
resources to develop expertise yeah
that's really cool I uh I myself voted
to decriminalize Silas sibin here in
Denver so that it could be used for
studying helping with mental health
health issues and other disorders that
traditional health care just is not
providing yeah and so you know when I
talk with my mom's boyfriend he's down
in the dumps because his cannabis stocks
are down but ultimately that's an
industry that can be used as an
alternative uh sort of Health Solution
so I guess I'm curious do you think that
insurance companies like Realm are kind
of the canary in the coal mine for The
Cutting Edge technology in like the
future that it offers so like for
example if we're starting to see more
MDMA and um hallucinogenic sort of
alternative medicines apply for
insurance is it safe to say that the
more companies that are seeking
Insurance opportunities that the
industry itself is becoming more and
more concrete and something that has
legs and will stand the test of time
it's a really interesting perspective I
mean maybe that's give giving us more
credit than we deserve but I certainly
think you know it's a great point that
if companies are looking for insurance
that to me is the first barrier to entry
of legitimate operators right and that's
not to say every company that buys
insurance is legitimate but when you
look at companies operating let's say in
the Psychedelic space or the digital
asset space completely different
Industries but the same kind of
situation if you are a sketchy operator
that's scammy and looking to either pump
and dump your token or your stock or
looking to try to pull one over on your
consumers you're not going to subject
yourself to a really kind of invasive
underwriting process that's going to
require transparency and due diligence
and engagement so I think when you see a
little bit of momentum within some of
these Fringe sectors or Industries or
initiatives making the decision to
subject themselves to the underwriting
process for traditional Insurance
products except they're absolutely going
to need to have in place in order to
scale other business in order to raise
capital in order to get licenses in
order to trade with other companies
um I think that is a sign of maturity
within the industry and I think it's a
good sign that it's probably headed in
the right direction with some you know
companies that recognize the importance
of operating a company in a kind of a
little bit more of a traditional way
interesting insights so the realm
collaborated with uh what is it the
Bermuda monetary Authority and what's
the right way to word this is the type
of work that you're doing could you have
established in another jurisdiction like
in the U.S or in Europe with the current
way that insurance regulation is moving
or did realm need to seek out uh
specifically an authority that is
Forward Thinking and kind of open to
these opportunities
is it just the BMA that is kind of like
opening the doors or are you seeing that
maybe larger us-based Regulators are
also interested in opening the doors for
conversations with realm like the BMA
was yeah so you know there's a couple of
points to touch on there so when you
look at Bermuda as an insurance
jurisdiction even though Bermuda is a
relatively small kind of island in the
middle of the Atlantic you know I think
it's 60 square miles 200 billion dollars
worth of insurance and reinsurance
premium is flowing through the largest
balance sheets in the insurance world
every single year so you know when you
compare it to U.S jurisdictions it's far
bigger than almost every U.S it's far
bigger than every single state you know
Insurance jurisdiction and as a result
you know The Regulators there have seen
some of the most creative and
interesting things from insurance and
reinsurance strategies so it's a really
sophisticated regulatory body but could
we have set up Realm in a U.S state yes
could we have set up realm in could
we've set it up in London yeah we could
have could we have set it up in a
Caribbean jurisdiction yes we could have
the reason we ended up Landing in
Bermuda though is because to be able to
talk to sophisticated Insurance
Regulators that are also really informed
on what's going on in the digital asset
space is a really unique Dynamic and
Bermuda to its credit past the digital
asset business act back in 2018 which is
the regulatory framework for authorizing
companies operating in the digital asset
ecosystem so the Bermuda monetary
Authority who oversees and regulates
insurance and reinsurance companies also
oversees and regulates
and authorizes companies operating the
digital asset business space so the
first important reason we landed in
Bermuda is alignment to be able to talk
to Regulators without also having to
explain to them technology without also
having to explain to them why all of the
nefarious activities that make the
headlines aren't really what we should
be focusing on was an immediate door
opener and I think Bermuda was also far
more aware of the importance that
insurance was going to play for
companies in these Innovative sectors
and the second reason I think that was
most important is because Bermuda to
their credit and you know there's
there's a ton of support from the
Bermuda government and also the BMA
which is you know kind of the private
regulatory body but they actually
created this license Class called iigb
which stands for Innovative insurer
General business
and we were the first insurance company
to obtain this insurance authorization
and the reason it's significant is
because the iigb license actually
enables us to transact Insurance in the
traditional way which is to say pricing
coverage in US Dollars and offering
limits in U.S dollars and holding US
Dollars on our balance sheet but it also
enables us to do really interesting and
Innovative things like denominating our
policy limits in ethereum and the whole
ethereum on our balance sheet and still
taking credit for those assets for
solvency purpose so that iigb license
and the thought that went into it by the
BMA actually created a new solvency
model that enables us to actually take
credit for holding digital assets on our
balance sheet and in a different
jurisdiction those assets would be worth
zero for solvency purposes so there's a
lot of really interesting things we can
do with this kind of fully regulated way
of doing Insurance in a traditional
non-traditional way yeah that's super
cool so what are the types of insurance
that realm offers I mean to be spread
across so many different types of
Industries there have to be different
types of offerings so what are your
primary offerings and um maybe what's
the process like for when you're
exploring a new way to ensure a new
company so yeah and this is probably the
most boring part of our business model
right and I think this is something that
a lot of people have said a lot of our
businesses
comprised of traditional Insurance
products you know that we've modified in
a way that makes them much more relevant
and substantive for the companies that
we're insuring but if you look at you
know what really kind of has driven our
premium and therefore kind of Revenue
volume over the last three plus years
it's things like directors and officers
liability insurance yeah which we talked
about before it's commercial crime
insurance which deals with debt of
financial things cyber Insurance
professional liability insurance right
these are traditional coverages that any
company operating in you know the
financial services space would need in
order to scale their business and no
surprise legitimate operators in new and
emerging Industries need access to these
coverages as well now that's kind of our
starting point and I think the more
interesting side of our business though
is the product development initiatives
that we've been able to execute on that
ultimately start with providing
traditional kind of let's say boring
insurance right so in order for us to
underwrite a company that's offering you
know or that's operating let's say as a
professional staking firm right we're
gonna have to underwrite that company
and learn about all those things that I
told you before financials Deep dive
into their financial situation
historical current perspective
management team products Services you
know where are they operating how are
they operating
security you know all those important
things that you would want to know in
order to form a sound basis for deciding
to provide a company like that directors
and officers liability insurance but as
part of that underwriting it should have
been also supported by our commitment to
knowing as much as we possibly can about
how companies are operating in these
different sectors you end up
encountering products
that could be enhanced if they were
backed by insurance or services that
could be more commercially appetizing if
they had an insurance kind of component
to them right and so when you look at
what's happening in the professional
staking space you've got these great
companies that are offering you know
less sophisticated institutional and
Retail participants the opportunity to
stake their digital assets on their
infrastructure and give these companies
access to a staking reward well if the
infrastructure provider is managing
those nodes
properly then yeah the great part is
their clients are getting a staking
reward kind of like a fixed income
return and it's safe and secure but if
these infrastructure operators are not
managing these nodes properly or God
forbid they have some sort of malicious
intent with the way that they're trying
to maintain operations of these nodes
the Financial penalties for their
clients could be severe right it could
be a slashing penalty that results in
basically the evaporation of 100 of the
assets they've staked with this
professional staking program and so you
know we were able to work with a couple
of the most significant infrastructure
providers in the space to create this
slashing Insurance product which allows
them to approach more sophisticated
institutional investors that want access
to the return but don't have a risk
management framework that enables them
to check the appropriate boxes to commit
the capital and so we've created the
slashing Insurance product that provides
a source of financial recovery in the
event that those staking Services don't
go as planned and that's just kind of
one example of some of the cooler more
interesting things that we've been up to
over the last three years yeah perfect
and what's kind of like the timeline or
the time Horizon that realm takes into
consideration when evaluating businesses
to ensure because again insurance is
such a backwards looking business crypto
as an industry is only 14 years old if
we count bitcoin's first block in
January of 2009 so what are the sort of
time Horizons that you guys are taking
into perspective when evaluating a
company you mean in terms of like
creating a new product or just going to
kind of like an underwriting Initiative
for let's say a traditional product like
um let's say you're dealing with this uh
slashing Insurance what's the time
Horizon that you take looking forward is
it something are we talking about like a
five-year policy are we talking about
like a 12-month policy that gets renewed
every year oh yeah most of our coverages
are 12-1 policies which is pretty
standard in the Property and Casualty
industry okay so I'm trying to without
like necessarily putting you on the spot
there are just so many ways in which Bad
actors can uh maliciously attack
networks we've got rug pulls we've got
attacking Bridges we've got protocol
hacks all this stuff so how does all of
these unknown unknowns kind of play into
your risk management policies yeah so
and I think it's it's a great starting
point for uh discussion and a topic that
frames the basis for why Insurance
capacity is so hard to come by and
especially if you're operating with
decentralized Finance space right so
when you look at tax right there's been
nearly three billion dollars worth of
assets that have kind of Gone Missing
arising from Smart contract failures of
one form or another so you know you
could look at that and say my God why
would anybody want to provide insurance
for the smart contract failures arising
from exploited code or bad code or
Oracle failures or Splash loan attacks
like all of this just sounds like a
terrible idea but you know I think if
you start to peel back the onion and you
look at the source of the risk which is
the Smart contract itself or the smart
contract system and you're dealing with
the developers of the smart contract
system and they're giving you
transparency into the security audits
that they've undertaken and then you're
able to review the remediation efforts
that they've subsequently taken for
those medium and high severity risks and
then you look at the competency of the
development team and you look at the
governance related to the particular
protocol and you look at the
communication to the participants you
can then start to again categorize good
risk from Bad risk you know if you're
dealing with a new protocol with not a
lot of transparency and no real history
three of successful operation and no
transparency related to the outcome of a
recent security audit not touching it
you know we're not gonna We're not gonna
put up any sort of capacity for that
sort of company but you know in the
complete opposite end of the spectrum if
we on our side are willing to engage
with the insurers and the developers of
these really important types of
technology in the decentralized finance
space and they're willing to engage with
us in kind of a collaborative way we
feel confident in our ability to extend
our balance sheet in support of those
types of initiatives and so you know it
it goes back to the source of the
challenge for companies operating in new
and emerging sectors on the surface
there's a ton of reason why insurance
companies should not want to be
providing Insurance to things arising
from these different operations but if
you're willing to dig a little bit
deeper and take a sincere interest and
really learn about how these companies
are operating and making money and
creating products and services and
you're also willing to engage with these
companies at an operational level and
you can I think make some great
decisions about how to provide coverage
these different initiatives have you had
to learn like coding languages like
python on or rust or golang or solidity
to help better your understanding of
kind of the innate ways that these
blockchain networks operate no I mean I
wish I could sit here and say that I can
code in solidity and rust yeah but the
cool part is when you're building out an
underwriting team you know we've got a
really amazing underwriting team that's
comprised of people that have
traditional underwriting experience you
know then we also have people that knew
nothing about underwriting coming in
here but are extremely technical when it
comes to programming or cyber security
and so when you're able to start picking
and choosing the people that are going
to put you as a company in a position to
really understand how these companies
are operating and make informed
underwriting decisions you then can
point to people within the overall team
that have these capabilities to explain
to me things that I personally just you
know I'm not aware of or capable of
understanding yeah before I was covering
the crypto space full-time I worked as
an urban planner for very various
different types of governments and one
of my favorite things that I used to
like to say is we converted Engineers
speak into human speak so we could talk
about what the engineers were talking
about with the public in a way that they
could understand and consume how this
was going to impact their day-to-day
life so this is actually a nice
opportunity to share a little bit more
about the realm team how many team
members do you have how many
Underwriters do you have are you guys
growing could you just share a little
bit more about realm and the folks who
are working for you guys yeah so we have
a full-time staff now of 30 people and
as I mentioned I think one of the
coolest Parts about realm other than the
industries that we focus a lot of our
attention on is kind of the
cross-section of the people that make up
the team you know when you look at Carol
Ferris who's our you know head of
accounting and finance she was in a
controller position for a company called
Bermuda fire and Marine for 16 years I
mean the oldest Insurance Company in
Bermuda and now she's leading all things
accounting and finance at realm you look
at you know our underwriting team we've
got a half a dozen members of our team
with really professional and credential
underwriting experience at some of the
largest you know insurance companies in
the world that have taken a leap out of
a position that's ultimately really
secure for well-known branded insurance
companies in the space and have made the
decision to come over to Rome because
they see the opportunity to be creative
in exercise latitude and grow and then
we've also hired people that as I
mentioned knew nothing about the
insurance world before but we're really
passionate about you know the industries
that we're focusing on and you know
Sophia from our team choose formally
with Goldman before she came over to
realm and nothing about insurance but is
the ultimate Bitcoin maximalist that you
know has made some significant ways
since she's come on board almost two
years ago so that's the fun part I would
say picking the team and hoping that you
know we can collaborate together to do
some really interesting things in a
relatively boring industry yeah totally
really and speaking of of that what are
the conferences you guys are going to
are you going to so one of my friends uh
she works for names and she talks uh
Danielle cool uh she talks a little bit
about the conferences that they go to
and how when she goes to Insurance
conferences everyone views them as like
the kooky crypto Insurance folks but
when she goes to crypto conferences
everyone's like oh you guys are the
boring Insurance folks like nobody wants
anything to do with you so the the realm
that you're in right now you have a foot
in one door and a foot in another door
and neither neither side necessarily
like aligns with your vision so what are
the types of conferences you're going to
what are the insights that you're you're
getting from these participants and
maybe over the past few years have
insights changed and have perceptions
changed about the services that you guys
offer as insurance in this Cutting Edge
crypto web 3 digital asset space has
become increasingly more and more
important it's kind of a natural
progression for new and emerging
Industries right when they start buying
insurance
it is a really important point in the
maturity of that industry and so I could
say back in 2018 and you know 2019 we've
got our license the idea of an insurance
company
sponsoring the Bitcoin Miami Conference
was certainly outside the box but what
you end up finding of course is that
while a lot of other insurance companies
or most other insurance companies
weren't focusing on that as a potential
opportunity when you start to engage
with the companies that are attending
these conferences some of them of course
are you know they want to they want to
operate their business with this little
kind of traditional influences they
possibly can but other companies that
are a little bit further along in their
life cycle recognize the importance of
having access to regulated Insurance
products so I think there's been an
increasing awareness certainly over the
last three or four years of the
importance
that Insurance the important role that
insurance is going to play in the
institutional adoption and mainstream
adoption of all the different types of
products and services coming out of the
decentralized finance space and then or
uh distributed Ledger technology space
but and then on the insurance side of
things you know we're constantly to your
point this up against companies that
have been around for so long and have
massive balance sheets in terms of
establishing our credibility as a you
know a legitimate insurance company and
we try not to focus on the perception
from other markets too much we really
focus on making sure our distribution
Partners have access to an informed
capacity provider and we try to work
through that distribution Network to
make sure as many good companies
operating in the sectors we're targeting
can have efficient access to our
capacity and we think if we do that for
a long enough time with enough success
we'll be able to continue to build
credibility in both sides of the fence
so I guess um it's a hard way to to word
this diploma automatically why is realm
Insurance the one that's stepping up to
the plate to ensure these Cutting Edge
Industries and why isn't it like a large
scale 100 plus year old insurance
company why aren't they just jumping in
to fill the gap for ensuring like new
crypto Services I mean we see Fidelity
investing into its exposure and
understanding of various different
crypto networks and this is a
traditional financial service so why
isn't like Lloyd's of London jumping in
to do this or Allstate why is it realm
Insurance well I think again it ties
back to a few things that we talked
about at the beginning of the year
number one the lack of historical loss
experience is kind of a condition that
prevents
fast adoption and you know commitments
to make capacity available for doing
interesting things you know the other I
think component is the headline risk
that comes with technology that's been
used you know supposedly for all these
nefarious things even though it accounts
for less than one percent of the overall
transaction volume right money
laundering buying illicit drugs human
trafficking all these terrible things
that really make up such a small
fraction of the good stuff that's going
on in the digital asset space but
regardless of how prevalent these
negative things are within these larger
insurance companies they're oftentimes
very bureaucratic and and that certainly
Works to their favor as large publicly
traded companies right you've got to
have different types of committees and
hierarchies and decision-making
processes that enable you to continue
kind of to deliver in the best interest
of your shareholders but these same you
know kind of structural
you know kind of Frameworks prevent
exercising latitude and you know kind of
seizing on opportunities and you also
have reinsurance right I mean as much as
everybody kind of hears about what's
going on in the insurance world
so much of what the insurers are able to
do is dictated by their reinsurance
right their reinsurers are not going to
continue providing reinsurance if you
are ensuring things that they are not
comfortable with right so you might have
insurance companies or yeah syndicates
within Lloyds that recognize the
opportunity in the digital asset space
as viable and tangible but if their
reinsurers are not on board with it
their hands are tied so you have these
kind of different components along the
way that tie back to data the tie back
to kind of bureaucracy that tie back to
things like reinsurance that just
prevent a lot of widespread
participation but having said all of
that look at what happened with cyber
Insurance you know 15 years ago there
were not a lot companies participating
in providing capacity for cyber
insurance but as that data set builds
and as that loss experience becomes more
tangible you get more market prices
participation and that's the way the
insurance industry functions there's
more markets participating in providing
Insurance capacity today than there was
three years ago and there will certainly
be more five and ten years down the road
so it's just kind of a kind of a natural
progression of things cool we're getting
towards the end of our time so I kind of
want to end the conversation with some
higher level kind of 10 000 foot level
questions sure and 2022 was arguably one
of the worst years for a lot of
Perceptions in the crypto space Not only
did we have a massive protocol failure
and Terra that impacted so many people
myself included but we also had this
major corruption at centralized
institutions that were viewed as the
Paragon of trustworthy and things like
FTX you know we had sponsorships on
Sports Arenas in Miami there were
commercials there were big media Brands
and big athletes and famous people
repping FTX so there was a lot of
reputational damage last year from both
angles from both a protocol failing and
from both uh an entity that we were
supposed to trust
so how did both of these types of
failures impact the sort of way that
realm is able to operate and maybe what
are some of the nuances between the
differences and the types of failures so
yeah I think certainly you highlighted
an important Point regarding kind of the
volatility arising from 2022 but while I
don't think anyone could have foreseen
that the FTX situation would have
concluded the way that it did it is
indicative of the hesitation right for
traditional insurance companies to want
to support new Industries so if you're
going to be providing Insurance capacity
or you're going to be making investments
in or participating in these new sectors
you have to be prepared for volatility
you have to be prepared for variability
you have to have an eye toward the
impacts of regulatory uncertainty so for
us it validated the importance of risk
selection and the due diligence that we
do in order to make informed decisions
to underrate these companies so you know
from our standpoint it continue to
validate the way that we approach risk
which is we need transparency and if
we've got people on the other side of
the table or we're willing to give us
the transparency then we want to extend
our balance sheet in support of the
businesses I think outside of the
insurance World it has been a point of
Rapid maturity and a culling of the herd
so to speak within the digital asset
space the people who are still standing
today are more resilient are more
sensitive toward things like
counterparty Risk are more sensitive
toward doing the appropriate due
diligence on people they're hiring
governance risk and compliance
information security internal controls
all of these things that are Hallmarks
of traditional more mature Industries
are now becoming part of the daily and
monthly Mandate of the companies that
are best positioned within this new
sector so super unfortunate absolutely
unforeseen tons of turmoil but the
Silver Lining is that this is really a
function of short-term pain and
long-term date yeah in kind of a moment
of self-reflection do these events does
realm feel like yes we didn't expect
this to happen but we accounted for it
does it kind of like shake your faith
and your decision-making process what
does that do for your psyche when we
just keep having these like blow after
blow after blow of this contagion that
2022 represented yeah so in you know as
we sit here on April 7th in 2023 you
know I can affirmatively communicate
that we are battle tested at this point
yeah in April 7th of 2022
I really couldn't make a strong case for
the fact that we had sustained and come
out in a great position from really
substantial Market volatility so when
you look at the four kind of pillars of
our underwriting philosophy which is
good risk selection adequate pricing
disciplined in the actual dollar amount
of limits we're providing each one of
our insurance and then managing the
deductible or the retention in you know
the most rational fashion that has
turned out to be I don't want to say our
Saving Grace but it has turned out to be
a really important reason why we're
continuing to hire today why we grew our
book in 2022 while we're continuing to
bring more important products and
solutions into these sectors and we
certainly sustain claims activity that
we didn't anticipate sustaining arising
from you know the 2022 turmoil but again
I think it puts us in a great position
to have even more conviction about the
way way that we're operating realm and
the way that we're moving deeper and
broader into the sectors that we're
supporting cool so what are kind of the
big picture innovations that are coming
to the insurance industry or maybe some
of the bigger picture areas that you
guys are starting to focus on now yeah I
think you know as far as Innovations go
there's some really interesting stuff
going on within kind of like the
decentralized insurance protocol space
you know while a lot of those you know
Solutions right now that a lot of people
are aware of are not necessarily
regulated or Insurance in the technical
sense it does present some really
interesting solutions for spreading risk
and transferring risk so I think when
you look at the idea of on-chain
insurance type Solutions there's
actually a really lot of interesting
opportunity and Innovation that's going
to come out of that aspect of kind of
the evolving Insurance space and then I
think when you look at just the general
pace of of innovation when you look at
what's going on with chat GPT I mean
artificial intelligence has really been
a thing for a long time but never has it
become more relevant than it is now and
now people are talking about AI
governance and yeah how are we ensuring
that AI is coming medical journals and
not Twitter feeds to arrive at
conclusions for you know doctors who are
using it now I mean it seems crazy to
think of but the pace of innovation is
only increasing and I think it it makes
our kind of justification for our
existence that much more important which
is to try to find the winners and the
best actors and give them the coverage
they need to do the things they need to
do going forward and uh based off of the
web 3 companies that are seeking
Insurance uh maybe you're noticing a
certain concentration in a certain
sector like D5 or nfts or Dows or
whatever based off of the conversations
that you're having right now with new
companies seeking Insurance what do you
think is going to be a major Trend in
the next year to pay attention to when
it comes specifically to crypto or web3
it's a good question
I would say it's really going to be a
function of
these companies taking a hard look at
their risk management strategies looking
at the insurance coverage they have or
don't have and putting themselves in a
position to stand up to their
stakeholders whether those are board
members or Regulators or sophisticated
clients and being able to point to some
traditional reference points of
financial protection in the form of
insurance that they know they're going
to need to have going forward so while
that's not earth-shattering and
interesting I think it is a sign of the
times and we think the road ahead is is
a good one yeah I think with such an old
industry as insurance to start having
more and more crypto companies seek it
out I think that in and of itself is
something to keep in mind it's just uh
amalgamating or solidifying the fact
that this is an industry that's here to
stay so super exciting stuff you guys
are working on a lot of really cool
things Beyond web3 and crypto it was
super cool to talk about some of these
other Industries it was really awesome
to hop on the mic and get to chat about
insurance which is something I've grown
up with my entire life but never really
found to be super engaging uh so I can
honestly say that this is one of the
more fascinating conversations about
insurance I've ever had in my life so
Joe I want to thank you so much for
coming to join the smart economy podcast
talk to us about the cool things that
are you're working on at Rome if people
want to keep up to date with you or with
realm or if somebody listening to this
is interested in getting Insurance
throughm what are the best ways that
they can keep up with you and get in
contact with your team yeah I would say
go to our website which is
www.realminsurance.com and yeah you can
find other ways to connect with us on
the website but thanks so much though
it's been great this is as you said the
most interesting conversation you've had
about insurance it's a pretty low bar
but I'll take that as a compliment we
appreciate you taking the time today
yeah well it was great um definitely
looking forward to running into you and
your team in the wild and uh we'll catch
you next time cheers great thanks so
much
foreign
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
cool to hear Joe's insights into how
realm looks into the future of Cutting
Edge Industries and how they prioritize
the long lasting potential of certain
spaces while he played down my canary in
the coal mine analogy Joe did bring up a
good point if companies are looking for
insurance that's the first barrier to
entrance for a company that is seeking
to be a legitimate long-standing
operator looking forward it'll be really
interesting to see how the insurance
space will integrate blockchain into its
processes and I look forward to seeing
what kind of innovation can come to such
a long-standing industry on that note I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process we appreciate
you and look forward to catching you
next time